README.md, before:

# Pomodoro timer in the shell with tomatoshell 🍅!
Copyright © 2022 Nicolai Brand under GPL v2.

tomatoshell is a simple <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique">pomodoro</a> timer program for <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix-like">Unix-like</a> systems. It is written in <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/">Bash</a> and attempts to follow the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy">Unix philosophy</a> in a minimalistic bloat-free fashion. In addition to being a pomodoro timer in the terminal, it tracks the time and number of sessions to a log that can be queried to see total time spent.

## Installation

On Arch-based distribution, you can use the AUR (Arch User Repository).

```
$ yay -S tomatoshell
```

```
$ tomatoshell
```

That's it.

### To install manually:

#### Dependencies

- `git` - to download the source code (required at install).
- `bash` - shell scripting language.
- `alsa-lib` - audio support for linux. Almost certain to be installed already.
- `bc` - arithmetic.

#### Optional dependencies 
- `gawk/awk` - for arithmetic on log file.
- `figlet` - for cool text using the `-f` argument.
- `pulseaudio and mpv` - better playback of alarm.
- `notify-send` - sends notification when a session is ended. A notification deamon is also needed for this.


```
$ git clone git@github.com:LytixDev/tomatoshell.git
```

```
$ cd tomatoshell && ./configure install
```

```
$ tomatoshell
```

## Usage

- `-r` - prints total hours spent using tomatoshell and exits
- `-t` - time for every session in minutes [default:25 minutes]
- `-d` - delay between sessions in minutes [default:5 minutes]
- `-n` - total sessions [default:3]
- `-f` - figlet on

Press the 'q' key at any point during normal program execution to exit properly, or press the 's' key to skip the current countdown (session or break).

After installation the program will create a datafolder in `$HOME/.local/share/tomatoshell`. Here the alarm, `alarm.wav`, and the logfile `tomatoshell_log.csv` is located. The alarm can be swapped out for any other audio file that is compatible with the user's chosen audio player. The log file is a csv file with its columns being on the form: "date,number of sessions,seconds per session". The `-r` argument only tallies up the time spent in hours. Feel free to create some more cool statistics using the data.

Commit message:

Added pause function to pause the timer. (#21)
* Added pause function with a -p arg

* Updated Readme

---------

Co-authored-by: Abhishek Vivekanandan <vivekana@fzi.de>

README.md, after:

# Pomodoro timer in the shell with tomatoshell 🍅!
Copyright © 2022 Nicolai Brand under GPL v2.

tomatoshell is a simple <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique">pomodoro</a> timer program for <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix-like">Unix-like</a> systems. It is written in <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/">Bash</a> and attempts to follow the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy">Unix philosophy</a> in a minimalistic bloat-free fashion. In addition to being a pomodoro timer in the terminal, it tracks the time and number of sessions to a log that can be queried to see total time spent.

## Installation

On Arch-based distribution, you can use the AUR (Arch User Repository).

```
$ yay -S tomatoshell
```

```
$ tomatoshell
```

That's it.

### To install manually:

#### Dependencies

- `git` - to download the source code (required at install).
- `bash` - shell scripting language.
- `alsa-lib` - audio support for linux. Almost certain to be installed already.
- `bc` - arithmetic.

#### Optional dependencies 
- `gawk/awk` - for arithmetic on log file.
- `figlet` - for cool text using the `-f` argument.
- `pulseaudio and mpv` - better playback of alarm.
- `notify-send` - sends notification when a session is ended. A notification deamon is also needed for this.


```
$ git clone git@github.com:LytixDev/tomatoshell.git
```

```
$ cd tomatoshell && ./configure install
```

```
$ tomatoshell
```

## Usage

- `-r` - prints total hours spent using tomatoshell and exits
- `-t` - time for every session in minutes [default:25 minutes]
- `-d` - delay between sessions in minutes [default:5 minutes]
- `-n` - total sessions [default:3]
- `-f` - figlet on 

Press the 'q' key at any point during normal program execution to exit properly, or press the 's' key to skip the current countdown (session or break). Pressing the 'p' key would pause the timer.

After installation the program will create a datafolder in `$HOME/.local/share/tomatoshell`. Here the alarm, `alarm.wav`, and the logfile `tomatoshell_log.csv` is located. The alarm can be swapped out for any other audio file that is compatible with the user's chosen audio player. The log file is a csv file with its columns being on the form: "date,number of sessions,seconds per session". The `-r` argument only tallies up the time spent in hours. Feel free to create some more cool statistics using the data.
